Accuracy is (TP + TN) / (TP + TN + FP + FN).
Precision is TP / (TP + FP), and is also called positive predictive value.
Recall is TP / (TP + FN), and is also known as sensitivity.
A kilobyte is 1024 bytes. A megabyte is 1024 kilobytes. A gigabyte is 1024 megabytes.
The three types of data are tabular, image, and text.
Generalizability is the ability of a model to predict new, previously unseen test sets.
A kernal trick allows the data to be transformed into multiple dimensions in SVM.
Supervised machine learning is when the data is labeled.
Unsupervised machine learning is when the data is unlabeled.
Categorical data is data that can be sorted into categories.
Loss refers to the difference between the predicted value and the actual value.
Data science is the process of extracting knowledge from data. AI is the ability of a machine to perform tasks that normally require human intelligence. Machine learning is the ability of a machine to learn from data without being explicitly programmed.
Matthews correlation coefficient is a measure of the quality of binary and multiclass classifications.
Target variable is the variable that is being predicted, and can also be referred to as the label.
Train-test split is a method of splitting data into training and testing sets.
Bias is the difference between the average prediction of a model and the correct value which we are trying to predict.
Variance is the variability of a model prediction for a given data point.
F1 score is 2 / (1 / precision + 1 / recall).
A hyperparameter is a parameter whose value is set before the learning process begins.
Sensitivity is TP / (TP + FN), and is also referred to as recall.
Specificity is TN / (TN + FP), and is also known as true negative rate.
ROC stands for receiver operating characteristic.
AUC stands for area under the curve.
ROC-AUC is a performance measurement for classification problems at various thresholds settings.
PCA stands for Principal Component Analysis.
One hot encoding is a process by which categorical variables are pivoted into binary variables.
A confidence interval is a range of values that is likely to contain the true value of a parameter.
Prevalence is the proportion of the data that has the positive class.
Null accuracy is the accuracy that could be achieved by always predicting the most frequent class.
Imputation is the process of replacing missing data with substituted values.
Multicollinearity is when two or more independent variables are highly correlated.
Univariate analysis is the analysis of one variable at a time.
Kappa is observed accuracy - null accuracy / 1 - null accuracy.
Kappa is considered reliable when it is greater than 0.9, and non-reliable under 0.2.
Ternary operators are written as thing if condition else other thing.
GAN is a generative adversarial network, designed by Ian Goodfellow and his colleagues in 2014, use two neural networks: a generator and a discriminator.
Stable diffusion is an open source model that can be used to generate images from text, among other things.
GPT-3 is a language model that can generate text.
BERT is a language model that can generate text.
LOINC stands for Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes, and is a standard for identifying medical laboratory observations.
An epoch is a single pass through the entire dataset.
GPU stands for graphics processing unit.
HL7 (Health Level 7) is a standard for sharing health care information electronically.
PACS stands for picture archiving and communication system, and is used in radiology.
OSI standards are a set of standards for computer systems to communicate with each other.
DICOM stands for Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine, and is a standard for sharing information in medical imaging.
X12 is a standard for healthcare transactions in billing and claims.
NOIR is a mnemonic for the four types of data: numerical, ordinal, interval, and ratio.
Private functions start with an underscore.
Unit test files start with test_ or end in _test.
Both git and linux were developed by Linus Torvalds.
Seaborn is abbreviated as sns because those are the initials of Sam Seaborn from The West Wing.
pip stands for pip installs packages.
The first version of python was released in 1991, by Guido van Rossum.
yaml stands for YAML Ain't Markup Language, but originally stood for Yet Another Markup Language.
Cyclomatic complexity measures the complexity of your code by counting the number of linearly independent paths through your code. 26 is considered the maximum.
Stop words are words that do not contribute meaning to the text.
Tokenization is the process of splitting inidividual words into tokens.
Stemming is the process of reducing inflected words to their word stem.
Lemmatization is the process of reducing inflected words to their lemma.
NER stands for named entity recognition, and is the process of identifying named entities in text.
Keyword extraction is the process of identifying the most important words in a document.
Cross-validation iterates over various sizes of training and testing sets to more accurately assess the performance of a model.
A SWOT analysis evaluates strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.
On a research paper, the principal investigator is the person who is responsible for the overall direction of the research.
You typically activate a virtual environment by running source activate env_name.
Ensemble learning is the process of combining multiple models to create a more powerful model.